README.md, before:

# Temporal Durable Trivia
A trivia game built durably on [Temporal](temporal.io)

## Demo Info
This demo primarily shows the _reliability_ of Temporal.

### Prerequisites
| Prerequisite       | ✅ |
|:-------------------|---|
| Network Connection | ✅ |
| Go           | ✅ |
| Python (UI)           | ✅ |
| Docker             | ✅ |
| Temporal CLI (solo)       | ✅ |

### Features
| Feature            | ✅ | 
|:-------------------|---|
| Schedule       |   |
| Local Activity |   |
| Signal         | ✅ |
| Query          | ✅ |
| Update         | ✅ |
| Heartbeat      |   |
| Timer          | ✅ |
| Activity Retry |   |
| Cron           |   |   
| Data Converter |   |

### Patterns
| Pattern            | ✅ |
|:-------------------|---|
| Entity              | ✅ |
| Fanout              |   |
| Long-polling        |   |
| Continue As New     |   |
| Long-running        |   |
| Manual Intervention | ✅ |
| Saga                |   |

### Production Grade Features
| Pattern            | ✅ |
|:-------------------|---|
| User Interface   | ✅ |

## Workflow Design
Temporal trivia utlizes two workflows. One workflow orchestrates the game and maintains game state. The other workflow adds a player to the game.
![Workflow Design](/img/Temporal_Trivia_Workflow_Design.png)

## Deploy in Kubernetes
Build docker file
<pre>
$ cd temporal-trivia
$ docker build -t ktenzer/temporal-trivia:v1.0 .
</pre>

Push docker file
<pre>
$ docker push ktenzer/temporal-trivia:v1.0
</pre>

Add SSL Certs to Secret
<pre>
$ kubectl create secret tls temporal-trivia-tls-secret --key /home/ktenzer/temporal/certs/ca.key --cert /home/ktenzer/temporal/certs/ca.pem -n temporal-trivia
</pre>

Add ChatGPT Key to Secret
<pre>
$ kubectl create secret generic chatgpt-key --from-literal=KEY=chatgptkey -n temporal-trivia
</pre>

Create Deployment (update the environment parameters before deploying)
<pre>
$ kubectl create -f yaml/deployment.yaml
</pre>

Check Pods
<pre>
$ kubectl get pods -n temporal-trivia
NAME                              READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
temporal-trivia-95b98d7d4-5mfj4   1/1     Running   0          23h
temporal-trivia-95b98d7d4-gscgm   1/1     Running   0          23h
temporal-trivia-95b98d7d4-mhb7d   1/1     Running   0          23h
</pre>

## Deploy in Local Environment
Set the following environment variables. These variables configure the temporal namespace, endpoint and certs. In addition since chatgpt is used, a valid chatgpt API key is also required. You can create a chatgpt API key [here](https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys).

Client Configuration parameters
<pre>
export TEMPORAL_NAMESPACE="namespace.AccountId or namespace"
export TEMPORAL_HOST_URL="$TEMPORAL_NAMESPACE.tmprl.cloud:7233 or 127.0.0.1:7233"
export TEMPORAL_MTLS_TLS_CERT="/path/to/ca.pem"
export TEMPORAL_MTLS_TLS_KEY="/path/to/ca.key"
</pre>

Worker Configuration parameters
<pre>
export TEMPORAL_NAMESPACE="namespace.AccountId or namespace"
export TEMPORAL_HOST_URL="$TEMPORAL_NAMESPACE.tmprl.cloud:7233 or 127.0.0.1:7233"
export TEMPORAL_MTLS_TLS_CERT="/path/to/ca.pem"
export TEMPORAL_MTLS_TLS_KEY="/path/to/ca.key"
export CHATGPT_API_KEY="<API KEY>"
export TEMPORAL_TASK_QUEUE="temporal-task-queue"
export MODERATION_URL=https://www.purgomalum.com/service/containsprofanity?text=
</pre>

Game parameters
<pre>
export TEMPORAL_WORKFLOW_ID="trivia_game_152a2c56-35fc-4e0d-96e9-b5b9544ab9a9"
export TEMPORAL_TRIVIA_PLAYER="Keith"
export TEMPORAL_TRIVIA_ANSWER="A"
</pre>

<pre>
$ git clone https://github.com/ktenzer/temporal-trivia.git
</pre>

## Game Scoring
Players will get two points for being the first to get a right answer and one point for getting the right answer but not being first. Final scores will revealed after the game completes.

## Game Rules
Each game can be configured with its own rules. Whoever starts the game sets the rules. This is done as a workflow input. If no input is provided the defaults are assumed.

<pre>
Category:          "General",
NumberOfQuestions: 5,
NumberOfPlayers:   2,
QuestionTimeLimit: 60,
ResultTimeLimit: 10,
StartTimeLimit: 300,
</pre>

## Play the game
Ensure you are exporting the environment variables.
<pre>
$ cd temporal-trivia
</pre>

### Run worker
You can also use the Docker file to build a worker image and under the yaml folder is everything needed to deploy on k8s.
<pre>
$ go run worker/worker.go
</pre>

### Run Solo Version using CLI
Using the CLI you can play as a single player. 

<pre>
$ go run cli/trivia.go -s --mtls-cert /home/ktenzer/temporal/certs/ca.pem --mtls-key /home/ktenzer/temporal/certs/ca.key --temporal-endpoint temporal-trivia.xyzzy.tmprl.cloud:7233 --temporal-namespace temporal-trivia.xyzzy --questions 5 --category geography
</pre>

<pre>
What is the largest country in the world by land area? 
A) Russia 
B) China 
C) United States 
D) Canada

Answer: a
Correct Answer: A
Which country is the largest producer of coffee in the world?
A) Brazil
B) Colombia
C) Ethiopia
D) Vietnam

Answer: a
Correct Answer: A
What is the smallest country in the world by land area?
A) Monaco
B) San Marino
C) Vatican City
D) Liechtenstein

Answer: a
Correct Answer: C
Which of these African countries is NOT along the equator?
A) Democratic Republic of Congo
B) Kenya
C) Uganda
D) Tanzania

Answer: a
Correct Answer: B
Which body of water is located between Turkey and Ukraine?
A) Black Sea
B) Mediterranean Sea
C) Caspian Sea
D) Adriatic Sea

Answer: a
Correct Answer: A
***** Your Score *****
solo 6
</pre>

### Run Simulation
You can manually run a game and understand how the interaction works using the simulator program. The simulator will load defaults and run a game. This is good option for testing or quick demonstration. Each player will answer questions randomly and game progress will be shown.
<pre>
$ go run simulator/main.go
</pre>

### UI 
See [Temporal Trivia UI](https://github.com/ktenzer/temporal-trivia-ui)

## Durable Trivia Business Requirements
**Durable Triva:** a durable, invincible trivia web application: _"fun and resilient!"_

### Core Game Functionality
Create a game with four phases:
1. Game setup & configuration
2. Users joining
3. Multiple rounds of trivia questions
4. Game results

### Durable Game Core Requirements
Our users want these key features:
- Keep it fresh: every game should have its own unique questions
- Game questions should be specific to a category, such as geography, history, famous people, etc.
- Multiple difficulty levels
- Require users to answer in a specific amount of time depending on difficulty
- Users pick their own user names - but prevent users from using inappropriate user names
- Allow configuration of games
  - number of questions
  - number of players
  - defaults and configurable maximums for these configurations
- Allow joining a game via URL or QR code 
  - Only allow joining for a set amount of time before the game starts
- Users want a simple, browser driven UI

### Performance, Scalability, and Security
We have these requirements for our game's architecture:
- Automatic cancellation of game if no players/not started after a certain amount of time
		- wide scalability - 1,000s of games running concurrently
- Game engine can't fail as a result of users becoming unavailable or unresponsive
- Game info must be kept away from users and out of their browsers
  - Game can't expose answers to the UI or APIs until the question ends

## Example Event History
![Event History](/img/history.png)

Commit message:

Update README.md to expand info with value props
Update README.md to expand info with value props

README.md, after:

# Temporal Durable Trivia
A trivia game built durably on [Temporal](temporal.io)

## Demo Info
This demo primarily shows a fun way to see the _human interaction_ features of Temporal, demonstrating developer **velocity** by delivering a lot of scalability and features by leveraging Temporal features. See [business requirements](#durable-trivia-business-requirements) below.

This demo can also show  **reliability** if you [shut down the services mid-game](https://youtu.be/6WYeWP8zt3w?t=2875).

This demo can demonstrate **insight** if you break from the game and show the state and event history as the game progresses.

| Value Demonstration       | ✅ |
|:-------------------|---|
| Velocity (**primary**) | ✅ |
| Reliability           | ✅ |
| Insight           | ✅ |

### Prerequisites
| Prerequisite       | ✅ |
|:-------------------|---|
| Network Connection | ✅ |
| Go           | ✅ |
| Python (UI)           | ✅ |
| Docker             | ✅ |
| Temporal CLI (solo)       | ✅ |

### Features
| Feature            | ✅ | 
|:-------------------|---|
| Schedule       |   |
| Local Activity |   |
| Signal         | ✅ |
| Query          | ✅ |
| Update         | ✅ |
| Heartbeat      |   |
| Timer          | ✅ |
| Activity Retry |   |
| Cron           |   |   
| Data Converter |   |

### Patterns
| Pattern            | ✅ |
|:-------------------|---|
| Entity              | ✅ |
| Fanout              |   |
| Long-polling        |   |
| Continue As New     |   |
| Long-running        |   |
| Manual Intervention | ✅ |
| Saga                |   |

### Production Grade Features
| Pattern            | ✅ |
|:-------------------|---|
| User Interface   | ✅ |

## Workflow Design
Temporal trivia utlizes two workflows. One workflow orchestrates the game and maintains game state. The other workflow adds a player to the game.
![Workflow Design](/img/Temporal_Trivia_Workflow_Design.png)

## Deploy in Kubernetes
Build docker file
<pre>
$ cd temporal-trivia
$ docker build -t ktenzer/temporal-trivia:v1.0 .
</pre>

Push docker file
<pre>
$ docker push ktenzer/temporal-trivia:v1.0
</pre>

Add SSL Certs to Secret
<pre>
$ kubectl create secret tls temporal-trivia-tls-secret --key /home/ktenzer/temporal/certs/ca.key --cert /home/ktenzer/temporal/certs/ca.pem -n temporal-trivia
</pre>

Add ChatGPT Key to Secret
<pre>
$ kubectl create secret generic chatgpt-key --from-literal=KEY=chatgptkey -n temporal-trivia
</pre>

Create Deployment (update the environment parameters before deploying)
<pre>
$ kubectl create -f yaml/deployment.yaml
</pre>

Check Pods
<pre>
$ kubectl get pods -n temporal-trivia
NAME                              READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
temporal-trivia-95b98d7d4-5mfj4   1/1     Running   0          23h
temporal-trivia-95b98d7d4-gscgm   1/1     Running   0          23h
temporal-trivia-95b98d7d4-mhb7d   1/1     Running   0          23h
</pre>

## Deploy in Local Environment
Set the following environment variables. These variables configure the temporal namespace, endpoint and certs. In addition since chatgpt is used, a valid chatgpt API key is also required. You can create a chatgpt API key [here](https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys).

Client Configuration parameters
<pre>
export TEMPORAL_NAMESPACE="namespace.AccountId or namespace"
export TEMPORAL_HOST_URL="$TEMPORAL_NAMESPACE.tmprl.cloud:7233 or 127.0.0.1:7233"
export TEMPORAL_MTLS_TLS_CERT="/path/to/ca.pem"
export TEMPORAL_MTLS_TLS_KEY="/path/to/ca.key"
</pre>

Worker Configuration parameters
<pre>
export TEMPORAL_NAMESPACE="namespace.AccountId or namespace"
export TEMPORAL_HOST_URL="$TEMPORAL_NAMESPACE.tmprl.cloud:7233 or 127.0.0.1:7233"
export TEMPORAL_MTLS_TLS_CERT="/path/to/ca.pem"
export TEMPORAL_MTLS_TLS_KEY="/path/to/ca.key"
export CHATGPT_API_KEY="<API KEY>"
export TEMPORAL_TASK_QUEUE="temporal-task-queue"
export MODERATION_URL=https://www.purgomalum.com/service/containsprofanity?text=
</pre>

Game parameters
<pre>
export TEMPORAL_WORKFLOW_ID="trivia_game_152a2c56-35fc-4e0d-96e9-b5b9544ab9a9"
export TEMPORAL_TRIVIA_PLAYER="Keith"
export TEMPORAL_TRIVIA_ANSWER="A"
</pre>

<pre>
$ git clone https://github.com/ktenzer/temporal-trivia.git
</pre>

## Game Scoring
Players will get two points for being the first to get a right answer and one point for getting the right answer but not being first. Final scores will revealed after the game completes.

## Game Rules
Each game can be configured with its own rules. Whoever starts the game sets the rules. This is done as a workflow input. If no input is provided the defaults are assumed.

<pre>
Category:          "General",
NumberOfQuestions: 5,
NumberOfPlayers:   2,
QuestionTimeLimit: 60,
ResultTimeLimit: 10,
StartTimeLimit: 300,
</pre>

## Play the game
Ensure you are exporting the environment variables.
<pre>
$ cd temporal-trivia
</pre>

### Run worker
You can also use the Docker file to build a worker image and under the yaml folder is everything needed to deploy on k8s.
<pre>
$ go run worker/worker.go
</pre>

### Run Solo Version using CLI
Using the CLI you can play as a single player. 

<pre>
$ go run cli/trivia.go -s --mtls-cert /home/ktenzer/temporal/certs/ca.pem --mtls-key /home/ktenzer/temporal/certs/ca.key --temporal-endpoint temporal-trivia.xyzzy.tmprl.cloud:7233 --temporal-namespace temporal-trivia.xyzzy --questions 5 --category geography
</pre>

<pre>
What is the largest country in the world by land area? 
A) Russia 
B) China 
C) United States 
D) Canada

Answer: a
Correct Answer: A
Which country is the largest producer of coffee in the world?
A) Brazil
B) Colombia
C) Ethiopia
D) Vietnam

Answer: a
Correct Answer: A
What is the smallest country in the world by land area?
A) Monaco
B) San Marino
C) Vatican City
D) Liechtenstein

Answer: a
Correct Answer: C
Which of these African countries is NOT along the equator?
A) Democratic Republic of Congo
B) Kenya
C) Uganda
D) Tanzania

Answer: a
Correct Answer: B
Which body of water is located between Turkey and Ukraine?
A) Black Sea
B) Mediterranean Sea
C) Caspian Sea
D) Adriatic Sea

Answer: a
Correct Answer: A
***** Your Score *****
solo 6
</pre>

### Run Simulation
You can manually run a game and understand how the interaction works using the simulator program. The simulator will load defaults and run a game. This is good option for testing or quick demonstration. Each player will answer questions randomly and game progress will be shown.
<pre>
$ go run simulator/main.go
</pre>

### UI 
See [Temporal Trivia UI](https://github.com/ktenzer/temporal-trivia-ui)

## Durable Trivia Business Requirements
**Durable Triva:** a durable, invincible trivia web application: _"fun and resilient!"_

### Core Game Functionality
Create a game with four phases:
1. Game setup & configuration
2. Users joining
3. Multiple rounds of trivia questions
4. Game results

### Durable Game Core Requirements
Our users want these key features:
- Keep it fresh: every game should have its own unique questions
- Game questions should be specific to a category, such as geography, history, famous people, etc.
- Multiple difficulty levels
- Require users to answer in a specific amount of time depending on difficulty
- Users pick their own user names - but prevent users from using inappropriate user names
- Allow configuration of games
  - number of questions
  - number of players
  - defaults and configurable maximums for these configurations
- Allow joining a game via URL or QR code 
  - Only allow joining for a set amount of time before the game starts
- Users want a simple, browser driven UI

### Performance, Scalability, and Security
We have these requirements for our game's architecture:
- Automatic cancellation of game if no players/not started after a certain amount of time
		- wide scalability - 1,000s of games running concurrently
- Game engine can't fail as a result of users becoming unavailable or unresponsive
- Game info must be kept away from users and out of their browsers
  - Game can't expose answers to the UI or APIs until the question ends

## Example Event History
![Event History](/img/history.png)
